refactor: project documentation (#140)
evanshortiss/env-var: API.md

# API

> This document lists all API methods `env-var` has.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A complete listing of the `env-var` API.
```

## Structure

* module (env-var)
  * [from()](#fromvalues-extraaccessors-logger)
  * [get()](#getvarname)
    * [variable](#variable)
      * [example(string)](#examplestring)
      * [default(string)](#defaultstring)
      * [required()](#requiredisrequired--true)
      * [covertFromBase64()](#convertfrombase64)
      * [asArray()](#asarraydelimiter-string)
      * [asBool()](#asbool)
      * [asBoolStrict()](#asboolstrict)
      * [asEnum()](#asenumvalidvalues-string)
      * [asFloat()](#asfloat)
      * [asFloatNegative()](#asfloatnegative)
      * [asFloatPositive()](#asfloatpositive)
      * [asInt()](#asint)
      * [asIntNegative()](#asintnegative)
      * [asIntPositive()](#asintpositive)
      * [asJson()](#asjson)
      * [asJsonArray()](#asjsonarray)
      * [asJsonObject()](#asjsonobject)
      * [asPortNumber()](#asportnumber)
      * [asRegExp()](#asregexpflags-string)
      * [asString()](#asstring)
      * [asUrlObject()](#asurlobject)
      * [asUrlString()](#asurlstring)
  * [EnvVarError()](#envvarerror)
  * [accessors](#accessors)

## from(values, extraAccessors, logger)

> This function is useful if you are not in a typical Node.js environment, or for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function is useful if you are not in a typical Node.js environment, want to set defaults, or for
```

testing. It allows you to generate an `env-var` instance that reads from the
given `values` instead of the default `process.env` Object.

```js
const env = require('env-var').from({
  API_BASE_URL: 'https://my.api.com/'
})

// apiUrl will be 'https://my.api.com/'
const apiUrl = env.get('API_BASE_URL').asUrlString()
```

When calling `env.from()` you can also pass an optional parameter containing
custom accessors that will be attached to any variables returned by that
`env-var` instance. This feature is explained in the
[extraAccessors section](#extraAccessors) of these docs.

Logging can be enabled by passing a logger function that matches the signature:

```js
/**
 * Logs the provided string argument
 * @param {String} varname
 * @param {String} str
 */
function yourLoggerFn (varname, str) {
  // varname is the name of the variable being read, e.g "API_KEY"
  // str is the log message, e.g "verifying variable value is not empty"
}
```

## get(varname)

This function has two behaviours:

> 1. Calling with a string argument will make it read that value from the environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Passing a string argument will read that value from the environment
```

> 2. If no string argument is passed it will return the entire environment object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If no argument is passed it will return the entire environment object
```

Examples:

```js
const env = require('env-var')

// #1 - Read the requested variable and parse it to a positive integer
const limit = env.get('MAX_CONNECTIONS').asIntPositive()

// #2 - Returns the entire process.env object
const allVars = env.get()
```

### variable

> A variable is returned by calling `env.get(varname)`. It exposes the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A variable is returned when `env.get(varname)` is called. It exposes the following
```

functions to validate and access the underlying value, set a default, or set
an example value:

#### example(string)

Allows a developer to provide an example of a valid value for the environment
variable. If the variable is not set (and `required()` was called), or the
variable is set incorrectly this will be included in error output to help
developers diagnose the error.

For example:

```js
const env = require('env-var')

const ADMIN_EMAIL = env.get('ADMIN_EMAIL')
  .required()
  .example('admin@example.com')
  .asString()
```

If *ADMIN_EMAIL* was not set this code would throw an error similar to that
below to help a developer diagnose the issue:

```
env-var: "ADMIN_EMAIL" is a required variable, but it was not set. An example
of a valid value would be "admin@example.com"
```

> #### default(string)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### default(defaultValue:  string)
```

Allows a default value to be provided for use if the desired environment

> variable is not set in the program environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
variable is not set in the program environment, i.e not present on `process.env`.
```

Example:

```js
const env = require('env-var')

// Use POOL_SIZE if set, else use a value of 10
const POOL_SIZE = env.get('POOL_SIZE').default('10').asIntPositive()
```

#### required(isRequired = true)

> Ensure the variable is set on *process.env*. If the variable is not set, or is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure the variable is set on `process.env`. If the variable is not set, or is
```

Converts the value to a string, and matches against the list of valid values.
If the value is not valid, an error will be raised describing valid input.

#### asFloat()

Attempt to parse the variable to a float. Throws an exception if parsing fails.

#### asFloatNegative()

Performs the same task as _asFloat()_, but also verifies that the number is
negative (less than or equal to zero).

#### asFloatPositive()

Performs the same task as _asFloat()_, but also verifies that the number is
positive (greater than or equal to zero).

#### asInt()

Attempt to parse the variable to an integer. Throws an exception if parsing
fails. This is a strict check, meaning that if the *process.env* value is "1.2",
an exception will be raised rather than rounding up/down.

#### asIntNegative()

Performs the same task as _asInt()_, but also verifies that the number is
negative (less than or equal to zero).

#### asIntPositive()

Performs the same task as _asInt()_, but also verifies that the number is
positive (greater than or equal to zero).

#### asJson()

Attempt to parse the variable to a JSON Object or Array. Throws an exception if
parsing fails.

#### asJsonArray()

> The same as _asJson_ but checks that the data is a JSON Array, e.g. [1,2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same as _asJson_ but verifies that the data is a JSON Array, e.g. [1,2].
```

#### asJsonObject()

> The same as _asJson_ but checks that the data is a JSON Object, e.g. {a: 1}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same as _asJson_ but verifies that the data is a JSON Object, e.g. {a: 1}.
```

#### asPortNumber()

Converts the value of the environment variable to an integer and verifies it's
within the valid port range of 0-65535. As a result well known ports are
considered valid by this function.

#### asRegExp([flags: string])

Read in the variable and construct a [`RegExp`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp)
instance using its value. An optional `flags` argument is supported. The string
passed for `flags` is passed as the second argument to the `RegExp` constructor.

#### asString()

Return the variable value as a String. Throws an exception if value is not a
String. It's highly unlikely that a variable will not be a String since all

> *process.env* entries you set in bash are Strings by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`process.env` entries you set in bash are Strings by default.
```

#### asUrlObject()

Verifies that the variable is a valid URL string using the same method as
`asUrlString()`, but instead returns the resulting URL instance. For details

> see the [Node.js URL docs](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/url.html#url_class_url).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WHATWG URL constructor.
```

Author: See latest comment.

#### asUrlString()

Verifies that the variable is a valid URL string and returns the validated
string. The validation is performed by passing the URL string to the

> [Node.js URL constructor](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/url.html#url_class_url).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WHATWG URL constructor.
```

#### asUrlObject()

Verifies that the variable is a valid URL string using the same method as

> `asUrlString()`, but instead returns the resulting URL instance. It uses the WHATWG URL constructor.

Author: @evanshortiss did not accept your suggestion for this line because it would have resulted in the text becoming 'For details WHATWG URL constructor.'

Changed it to 'It uses the WHATWG URL constructor.'

Would this work?

Reviewer: Looks good. I knew I'd mess up at least one suggestion 😄
